AC	Answer my question whether you are coming .
AC	Give me your promise that you will come to our party this evening .
AC	He had no idea why she left .
AC	He has n't made the decision whether he will go there .
AC	He made clear his desire that he should work hard to go to college .
AC	He must answer the question whether he agrees to it or not .
AC	He referred to Copernicus ' statement that the earth moves round the sun .
AC	He sent us a message that he wo n't come next week .
AC	I can understand their eagerness that you should be the main speaker .
AC	I had no idea that you were here .
AC	I have gotten the message that Tom had won the game .
AC	I have no idea what size shoes she wears .
AC	I have no idea when he will come back .
AC	I heard the news that our team had won .
AC	I 've come from Mr wang with a message that he wo n't be able to see you this afternoon .
AC	I 've come to the conclusion that it was unwise to do that .
AC	My question how I shall get in touch with him has not been answered .
AC	Our teacher gave us some advice how we should use the computer .
AC	The fact that he had not said anything surprised everybody .
AC	The fact that the money has gone does not mean it was stolen .
AC	The idea that you can do this work well without thinking is quite wrong .
AC	The plan that you will go there next week has to be changed .
AC	The question whether we should call in a specialist was answered by thefamily doctor .
AC	The question who will take his place is still not clear .
AC	The suggestion that the new rule be adopted came the chairman .
AC	There is no doubt that he is fit for this job .
AC	There was a suggestion that Brown should be dropped from the team .
AC	They are familiar with the opinion that all matter consists of atoms .
AC	They expressed the wish that she accept the award .
AC	They were faced with the demand that this tax be abolished .
AC	We all cheer up when we heared the news that our team won the first prize .
AC	We are not investigating the question whether he is trustworthy .
AC	We are not looking into the question whether he is worth trusting .
AC	We do n't understand the problem why this is the best choice .
AC	We have n't yet settled the question where we are going to spend our TIME vacation .
AC	Word came that he had been abroad .
AC	The news that they had won the game soon spread over the whole school .
AC	The general gave the order that the soldiers should cross the river at once .
AC	We 'll discuss the problem whether the sports meeting will be held on time .
AC	I have no idea when he will be back .
AC	I have no impression how he went home , perhaps by bike .
ATC	All the presents that your friends give you on your birthday should be put away .
ATC	During this terrible year they took only such food as they could find .
ATC	Football is a game which is liked by most boys .
ATC	Freedom is something which is won , not granted .
ATC	Glass , which breaks at a blow , is , nevertheless , capable of withstanding great pressure .
ATC	He 's not the kind of man who would go back on his words .
ATC	He gives the driest speech that I have ever listened to .
ATC	He has a friend whose father is a doctor .
ATC	He is a shallow thinker whose opinions are n't worth much .
ATC	He is not the same boy as he was .
ATC	He is the last man that I want .
ATC	He is the only one of the visitors that has been to PLACE .
ATC	He likes to read books which are written by foreign writers .
ATC	He married a wife by whom he had two daughters .
ATC	He proudly pointed out the biggest sheep , which already weighed 150 kilograms .
ATC	He quickly knocked out the few things that had to be looked after before leaving .
ATC	He said nothing that made her angry .
ATC	He was the only person that could rule over the tribes .
ATC	He was watching the children and parcels that filled the car .
ATC	Her attitude to him was quite the same as it had always been .
ATC	I 'd like a room whose window looks out over the sea .
ATC	I 've just struck on something which might be of use to us .
ATC	I do n't know the reason why he looks unhappy today .
ATC	I have never seen such a man as you talked about .
ATC	I have no money that I can spare .
ATC	I like the book whose cover is yellow .
ATC	I like those cookies that are coated with chocolate spread .
ATC	I never heard such stories as he tells .
ATC	I once lived in the house whose roof has fallen in .
ATC	I remember the years when he lived in the countryside with his grandparents .
ATC	I still remember the day when I first came to this school .
ATC	I visited a scientist whose name is known all over the country .
ATC	I visited the farm where a lot of cows were raised .
ATC	I will never forget the three years that I spent in the junior middle school .
ATC	Is he the man that sells eggs .
ATC	It is in this place that he once lived .
ATC	It is the same song that I heard yesterday afternoon .
ATC	Lally was right about the repairs which the cottage needed .
ATC	Li Ming is just the boy whom I want to see .
ATC	Mr Liu is the person whom you talked about on the bus .
ATC	Nobody is going to buy a house whose front door opens onto a gas works .
ATC	Painting is something that I really enjoy doing .
ATC	People who walk on the grass are liable to a fine .
ATC	Returning to a city where one used to live can be a saddening experience .
ATC	Rule out neatly any words which you do n't wish Jack to read .
ATC	She is one of the students that work very hard .
ATC	She is the very person that I wanted to see .
ATC	She was shown into a small room , where there was a dying man .
ATC	She was the last person that came back .
ATC	That 's the girl whom I teach .
ATC	That 's the same man that asked for help the day before yesterday .
ATC	That 's the way how I learn English .
ATC	That is the reason why we must go now .
ATC	That was the reason why he refused to speak at the meeting .
ATC	The bike and its rider that had run over an old man were taken to the police station .
ATC	The boys who are playing football are from Class One .
ATC	The classroom whose door is broken will soon be repaired .
ATC	The earthquake that you were talking about sounded frightening .
ATC	The factory which makes computers is far away from here .
ATC	The film which they went to see last night was not interesting at all .
ATC	The first thing that I want to do now is to have a drink .
ATC	The girl whom the teacher often praises is our monitor .
ATC	The house where I lived ten years ago has been pulled down .
ATC	The letter that I received from him yesterday is very important .
ATC	The man who I saw is called Smith .
ATC	The man who is shaking hands with my father is a policeman .
ATC	The man who telephoned was a friend of yours .
ATC	The man whom you met just now is my old friend .
ATC	The manager whose company I work in pays much attention to improving our working conditions .
ATC	The number of people that come to visit this city each year reaches one million .
ATC	The patient , who had been asleep for nearly three hours , began to move his limbs .
ATC	The person whom you wish to see has come .
ATC	The person that you introduced to me is very kind .
ATC	The play , whose style is rigidly formal , is typical of the period .
ATC	The professor whom you are waiting for has come .
ATC	The reason why he is late is that his car went wrong .
ATC	The reason why she did n't get the job was that her English was not very good .
ATC	The school which he once studied in is very famous .
ATC	The season which comes after TIME is summer .
ATC	The sports day is an occasion which we can all join in .
ATC	The third tree that I planted was cut down by someone again .
ATC	The time when we got together finally arrived .
ATC	The tourists sought out a shady spot where they sat down and rested .
ATC	The two brothers were satisfied with this decision , as was agreed beforehand .
ATC	The women never drink in this manner , which is absolutely special to men .
ATC	The worst matter that I am afraid of happened in the end .
ATC	There is a lady who wants to see you .
ATC	There is a special parasite which gives rise to the itch .
ATC	There is every chance that she will succeed .
ATC	There were long periods when we had no news of him .
ATC	They pushed open all the windows that remained closed for a whole month .
ATC	This could be the winning game for the challenger , who only needs two more points for the championship .
ATC	This is the boy whom I played tennis with yesterday .
ATC	This is the hour when the place is full of people .
ATC	This is the place where they fought the enemy .
ATC	This is the point , from which all distances are measured .
ATC	This is the room which is kept for the reception of visitors .
ATC	This is the way how he always treats me .
ATC	Those who want to go to the museum must be at the school gate at 7 tomorrow morning .
ATC	Those who were trapped under the ruins finally got rescued .
ATC	TIME was the day when the People 's Republic of PLACE was founded .
ATC	Tomorrow I 'll bring here the magazine which you asked for .
ATC	Watch for our new improved product , which will be on the market next week !
ATC	Water is the natural medium in which most fish live .
ATC	We 'll go to hear the famous singer whom we have often talked about .
ATC	We have worked out a scheme which should save the company several thousand pounds a year .
ATC	We may eventually become members of the club , but this is not something that should be rushed into .
ATC	We talked about the persons and things that we remembered in school .
ATC	We will try to help parents improve the ways that they talk with their children .
ATC	Would you please correct any wrong spellings that you find ?
ATC	Yesterday I received a letter which came from PLACE .
ATC	You tell me the reason why you missed the plane .
PADVC	She thinks more about her appearance than she thinks about her personality .
CMPADVC	She thinks more about her appearance than she thinks about her personality .
CMPADVC	He woke up as suddenly as he had fallen asleep .
PADVC	Man developed earlier than people think .
CMPADVC	Man developed earlier than people think .
PADVC	He moves more slowly than his sister does .
CMPADVC	He moves more slowly than his sister does .
CMPADVC	The youth of today are better off than we used to be .
PADVC	I hope you like it as much as I do .
CMPADVC	I hope you like it as much as I do .
PADVC	He feels no better today than he did yesterday .
PADVC	The weather is not so cold as it was TIME .
CMPADVC	The weather is not so cold as it was TIME .
PADVC	It is not as easy as you think .
CMPADVC	It is not as easy as you think .
CMPADVC	The work did not go so smoothly as we hoped .
PADVC	Man grows faster than the planet he inhabits .
CMPADVC	Man grows faster than the planet he inhabits .
PADVC	We have produced even more coal this year than we did that year .
CMPADVC	We have produced even more coal this year than we did that year .
PADVC	We seemed to understand human nature as well as do science .
CMPADVC	We seemed to understand human nature as well as do science .
PADVC	She drives better than her husband does .
CMPADVC	She drives better than her husband does .
PADVC	I read as many pages as they are required to be read .
PADVC	The winters in PLACE are not so mild as they are in PLACE .
CMPADVC	The winters in PLACE are not so mild as they are in PLACE .
PADVC	He eats more than is good for him .
PADVC	There were more casualties than was reported .
CMPADVC	There were more casualties than was reported .
PADVC	Work is as necessary for sound mind as it is necessary for sound body .
CMPADVC	Work is as necessary for sound mind as it is necessary for sound body .
PADVC	he was more agreeable than he was last night .
PADVC	That 's as good a place as I can find .
CMPADVC	That 's as good a place as I can find .
PADVC	The more we study , the more we discover our ignorance .
CMPADVC	The more we study , the more we discover our ignorance .
PADVC	The longer the treatment is delayed , the worse the prognosis will be .
PADVC	An object draws the harder , the more matter it contains .
CMPADVC	An object draws the harder , the more matter it contains .
PADVC	I like you the more , the more I know you .
PADVC	The more you read , the better will you write .
CMPADVC	The more you read , the better will you write .
PADVC	The higher the temperature is , the greater the pressure is .
CMPADVC	The higher the temperature is , the greater the pressure is .
CMAS	Right now it 's the TIME vacation and I 'm helping my dad on the farm .
CMAS	Neither did the naughty boy go home nor did his parents come to search for him .
CMAS	The teacher 's name is PLACE , and the student 's name is PLACE .
CMAS	Not only did we write to her but also we telegraphed her .
CMAS	Neither I would consult him nor he would ask me for advice .
CMAS	I like thrillers and I like action movies , too .
CMAS	I like watching TV and I like seeing film .
CMAS	I like watching TV , my brother likes seeing film and my sister likes playing football .
CMAS	I tried my best , and I caught up with him at last .
CMAS	My father is a teacher and my mother is a nurse .
CMAS	He was working in a shoes factory and now he retires .
CMAS	He is fat and he is trying to lose weight .
CMAS	I bought a present and he likes it very much .
CMAS	The sun not only gives us the light but also it gives us heat .
CMAS	He not only works hard but also he is handsome .
CMAS	She neither changed her mind , she will nor do so .
CMBS	It never rains but it pours .
CMBS	I like tea while she likes coffee .
CMBS	she would be late , yet she arrived on time .
CMBS	He is good-natured ; still I do n't like him .
CMBS	The book is expensive ; however , it 's worth it .
CMBS	I am sorry to trouble you , but can you show me the way to the park .
CMBS	Learning the guitar is n't difficult , but you have to practice .
CMBS	The man hunted for jobs in new York for months , and yet he couldn ?? t find any .
CMBS	It is strange , yet it is true .
CMBS	he was our friend , yet he would n't help us .
CMBS	he was certain , However he was wrong .
CMBS	He is tall while his elder brother is short .
CMBS	You clean the window while I mop the floor .
CMBS	Hurry up or you will miss the first bus .
CMBS	Hurry up otherwise you will miss the first bus .
CMBS	Hurry up or else you will miss the first bus .
CMBS	Seize the chance , otherwise you 'll regret .
CMFS	I am thirsty , for it is hot .
CMFS	The manager was ill so I went in her place .
CMFS	He was a beggar now , for he had lost millions in a night .
CMFS	It 's time of year for the rice harvest , so every day I work from dawn until dark .
CMFS	He worked day and night , therefore , he was able to buy the sports car .
CMFS	The student got up late this morning , so she did n't catch the early bus .
CMFS	I have to stay up late , for I have lots of homework to do .
CMFS	Kate was ill , so she did n't go to school .
CMFS	Danny always feels nervous , so he decides to ask his doctor for help .
CMFS	You 'd better take an umbrella with you , for it 's going to rain .
CMFS	I 've got a meeting to attend , so I have to go now .
CMFS	They asked me to go , so I went .
CMFS	It 's dawn , for the birds are singing .
CMFS	It 's morning , for the birds are singing .
CMFS	It 's winter now , hence the day will be shorter .
CMFS	I apologized to her , for I had wronged her .
CMFS	He felt no fear , for he was very brave .
CMFS	You are supposed to get rid of carelessness , for it often lends to a serious errors .
CMFS	Everyone lent a hand , so the task was done on time .
CCSADVC	Admitting he has ability and interest , it does not mean he has time to do the job .
CCSADVC	Admitting that he has ability and interest , it does not mean he has time to do the job .
CCSADVC	Although air is light , it has weight .
CCSADVC	Although he is very old , yet he is quite strong .
CCSADVC	Although he was worn out , he kept on working .
CCSADVC	Although he was worn out , still he kept on working .
CCSADVC	Although you may object , I 'll go .
CCSADVC	Can you tell me whether it will rain or not tomorrow ?
CCSADVC	Child as he is , he know a lot .
CCSADVC	Child as he was , he knew what was the right thing to do .
CCSADVC	Child though he is , he know a lot .
CCSADVC	Child though he was , he knew what was the right thing to do .
CCSADVC	Even if he is poor , she loves him .
CCSADVC	Even though he is poor , she loves him .
CCSADVC	Fast as you read , you can ?? t finish the book so soon .
CCSADVC	Granted that you are made some progress , you should not be conceited .
CCSADVC	Granted you are made some progress , you should not be conceited .
CCSADVC	Granting that you are made some progress , you should not be conceited .
CCSADVC	Granting you are made some progress , you should not be conceited .
CCSADVC	Hard though he works , he makes little progress .
CCSADVC	However expensive it may be , I 'll take it .
CCSADVC	However hard I have tried , I can not find the answer .
CCSADVC	However often you ring , no one will answer .
CCSADVC	It was an exciting game , although no goals were scored .
CCSADVC	It was an exciting game , though no goals were scored .
CCSADVC	No matter what I say or how I say it , he always thinks I 'm wrong .
CCSADVC	No matter what happened , he would not mind .
CCSADVC	No matter what you say , I wo n't believe you .
CCSADVC	No matter which book you borrow , you must return it in a week .
CCSADVC	No matter who you are , you must keep the law .
CCSADVC	Object as you may , I ?? ll go .
CCSADVC	She passed the examination though she had not studied very hard .
CCSADVC	Though he is very old , yet he is quite strong .
CCSADVC	Though he looks weak , but he is healthy .
CCSADVC	Though he looks weak , he is healthy .
CCSADVC	Though he tries hard , he never seems .
CCSADVC	Though he was a child , he knew what was the right thing to do .
CCSADVC	Though he was exhausted , still he kept on working .
CCSADVC	Though he was worn out , he kept on working .
CCSADVC	Though he was worn out , still he kept on working .
CCSADVC	Though he works hard , he makes little progress .
CCSADVC	Though you may object , I 'll go .
CCSADVC	Try hard as he will , he never seems able to do the work satisfactorily .
CCSADVC	We wo n't be discouraged even if we fail ten times .
CCSADVC	We wo n't be discouraged even though we fail ten times .
CCSADVC	We 'll make a trip even ithough the weather is bad .
CCSADVC	We 'll make a trip even though the weather is bad .
CCSADVC	Whenever it rains , this river is flooded .
CCSADVC	Whether it rains or not , I shall go out for an outing tomorrow .
CCSADVC	Whichever book you borrow , you must return it in a week .
CCSADVC	While I like the color , I do n't like the shape .
CCSADVC	Whoever you are , you must keep the law .
CADVC	I will stay here provided the climate agrees with me .
CADVC	I will stay here providing the climate agrees with me .
CADVC	I would have arrived much earlier if I had not been caught in the traffic .
CADVC	If bears are in danger , they attack people .
CADVC	If bears are in danger , they attack people .
CADVC	If it rains tomorrow , we will not go to the zoo .
CADVC	If it stops snowing we can go out .
CADVC	If you fail in the exam , you will let him down .
CADVC	If you park your car in the wrong place , a traffic policeman will soon find it .
CADVC	If you receive arequest like this , you can not fail to obey it .
CADVC	If you want to lose weight you must eat less bread .
CADVC	Provided you clear your desk by this evening , you can have tomorrow off .
CADVC	Provided you promise not to tell anyone else , I '11 explain the secret .
CADVC	Providing there is no opposition , we shall hold the meeting here .
CADVC	Providing you clear your desk by this evening , you can have tomorrow off .
CADVC	Providing you promise not to tell anyone else , I '11 explain the secret .
CADVC	The concert will be held as schedule unless there is a typhoon .
CADVC	Unless it rains , the game will be played .
CADVC	Unless you keep the meat in the fridge , it goes bad .
CADVC	Unless you listen carefully , you wo n't know the answer .
CADVC	We can walk there if we ca n't find a bus .
CADVC	We will go hiking unless it rains tomorrow .
CADVC	What will you do if you find a panda in danger .
CADVC	You can borrow my bike provided you bring it back .
CADVC	You will be very lucky if he lets you go without a ticket .
CADVC	Unless PLACE improve their game they 're going to lose the match .
CADVC	I would n't be saying this unless I were sure of the facts .
CADVC	The other banks are going to be very eager to help , provided that they see that he has a specific plan .
CADVC	I shall go provided that it does n't rain .
CADVC	I will agree to go providing that my expenses are paid .
CADVC	I will agree to go provided that my expenses are paid .
RADVC	You must do as your parents tell you .
RADVC	I have changed it as you suggest .
MNRADVC	I have changed it as you suggest .
MNRADVC	I am as you can imagine short of money .
RADVC	Robbie didn ?? t feel as she did .
MNRADVC	Robbie didn ?? t feel as she did .
RADVC	They treated the child as if she were their own .
RADVC	I remember the whole thing as if it happened yesterday .
MNRADVC	I remember the whole thing as if it happened yesterday .
RADVC	He treats me as if I am a stranger .
MNRADVC	He treats me as if I am a stranger .
RADVC	The stuffed dog barks as if it is a real one .
MNRADVC	The stuffed dog barks as if it is a real one .
RADVC	Always do to the others as you would be done by .
MNRADVC	Always do to the others as you would be done by .
MNRADVC	As water is to fish , so air is to man .
RADVC	Just as we sweep our rooms , so we should sweep backward ideas from our minds .
MNRADVC	Just as we sweep our rooms , so we should sweep backward ideas from our minds .
RADVC	They completely ignore these facts as though they never existed .
MNRADVC	They completely ignore these facts as though they never existed .
RADVC	They completely ignore these facts as if they never existed .
MNRADVC	They completely ignore these facts as if they never existed .
RADVC	He looks as if he had been hit by lightning .
RADVC	It looks as if the weather may pick up very soon .
MNRADVC	It looks as if the weather may pick up very soon .
RADVC	He looks as if he is angry .
MNRADVC	He looks as if he is angry .
RADVC	He behaves as if he were a child .
RADVC	He opened his lips as if he was going to say something .
MNRADVC	He walked forward as though making a speech .
RADVC	He walked forward as if making a speech .
MNRADVC	He walked forward as if making a speech .
RADVC	The clouds has disappeared as if they had done by magic .
RADVC	He fell off his horse as if he had been shot .
MNRADVC	He hurriedly left the moon as though she were angry .
ATC	Above the trees are the mountains , whose magnificence the river faithfully reflects on the surface .
ATC	Angles , whose native language is German , can read and write in several foreign languages .
ATC	As is known to the PLACE , Mark Twain is a great American writer .
ATC	As we all know , the earth is round .
NATC	As we all know , the earth is round .
ATC	PLACE , which was founded in TIME , is becoming more and more powerful .
ATC	He forgot to bring his pen with him , as was often the case .
NATC	He forgot to bring his pen with him , as was often the case .
ATC	He has a son , who is an actor .
NATC	He has a son , who is an actor .
NATC	He is absorbed in work , as he often was .
NATC	He may have acute appendicitis , in which case he will have to be operated on .
ATC	He said that he had never seen her before , which was not true .
NATC	He said that he had never seen her before , which was not true .
ATC	He saw the girl , which delighted him .
ATC	He will put off the picnic until TIME , when he will be free .
NATC	He will put off the picnic until TIME , when he will be free .
NATC	His head soon appeared out of the second storey windows , from where he could see nothing but trees .
NATC	His mother , who loves him very much , is strict with him .
ATC	I admire the man , who wears a big smile .
NATC	I admire the man , who wears a big smile .
ATC	I like the girl , who is making a pose .
NATC	I like the girl , who is making a pose .
NATC	I went to bed at ten , before when I was reading for an hour .
ATC	In his office there are nine clerks , the youngest of whom is Mr Liu .
NATC	In his office there are nine clerks , the youngest of whom is Mr Liu .
ATC	Last TIME I visited the People 's Great Hall , in which many important meetings are held every year .
NATC	Last TIME I visited the People 's Great Hall , in which many important meetings are held every year .
NATC	Light is the fast thing in the world , the speed of which is 300000 kilometer per second .
ATC	Mr Smith , from whom I have learned a lot , is a famous scientist .
NATC	Mr Smith , from whom I have learned a lot , is a famous scientist .
ATC	My gardener , who is very pessimistic , says that there will be no apples this year .
NATC	My gardener , who is very pessimistic , says that there will be no apples this year .
ATC	Our guide , who was a French Canadian , was an excellent cook .
NATC	Our guide , who was a French Canadian , was an excellent cook .
ATC	Peter , whom you met in PLACE , is now back in PLACE .
NATC	Peter , whom you met in PLACE , is now back in PLACE .
ATC	She is always careless , which we should not be .
NATC	She is always careless , which we should not be .
NATC	She is an artist , which I am not .
ATC	She was very patient towards the children , which her husband seldom was .
ATC	Sun Yida , whom everyone likes very much , is one of the best athletes in our class .
NATC	Sun Yida , whom everyone likes very much , is one of the best athletes in our class .
ATC	PLACE is , as you know , an inseparable part of PLACE .
NATC	PLACE is , as you know , an inseparable part of PLACE .
ATC	The Thames , which is now clean enough to swim in , was polluted for over a hundred years .
NATC	The Thames , which is now clean enough to swim in , was polluted for over a hundred years .
ATC	The book , which your sister bought you in PLACE , is very useful in improving your spoken English .
NATC	The book , which your sister bought you in PLACE , is very useful in improving your spoken English .
NATC	The boy , whose father is an engineer , studies very hard .
ATC	The novel is very interesting , which made me very glad .
NATC	The novel is very interesting , which made me very glad .
ATC	The novel , which I read last night , is very interesting .
NATC	The novel , which I read last night , is very interesting .
ATC	The old man has a son , who is in the army .
ATC	The play , whose style is informal , is popular with the young people .
NATC	The play , whose style is informal , is popular with the young people .
ATC	The play , whose style is rigidly formal , is typical of the period .
ATC	The sun heats the earth , which makes it possible for plants to grow .
NATC	The sun heats the earth , which makes it possible for plants to grow .
ATC	The two brothers were satisfied with this decision , as was agreed beforehand .
NATC	The two brothers were satisfied with this decision , as was agreed beforehand .
NATC	The two policemen were completely trusted , which in fact they were .
ATC	There are 30 chairs in the small hall , most of which are new .
NATC	There are 30 chairs in the small hall , most of which are new .
NATC	These apple trees , which I planted three years ago , have not borne any fruit .
ATC	They went to PLACE , where they lived for six months .
ATC	We will put off the outing until next week , when we wo n't be so busy .
ATC	Wei Hua spent four years in the PLACE , during which period she studied law .
NATC	Wei Hua spent four years in the PLACE , during which period she studied law .
ATC	When deeply absorbed in work , which he often was , he would forget all about eating and sleeping .
NATC	When deeply absorbed in work , which he often was , he would forget all about eating and sleeping .
NATC	Xi'an , which I visited last year , is a nice old city .
ATC	My friend , who has served on the International Olympic Committee all his life , is retiring next month .
NATC	My friend , who has served on the International Olympic Committee all his life , is retiring next month .
ATC	Have you seen the film Titanic , whose leading actor is world famous ?
NATC	Have you seen the film Titanic , whose leading actor is world famous ?
OC	Everything depends on whether you agree with us .
OC	He answered that he was listening to me .
OC	He asked if you had written to Peter .
OC	He asked me where he could find Lucy .
OC	He is wondering when can he finish this difficult job .
OC	He said that he would go back to the PLACE soon .
OC	He suggested we should clean the corridor every day .
OC	He told me that he was preparing for the English test .
OC	I am glad that you can join us .
OC	I am sorry that I have troubled you so long .
OC	I am sure I will pass the exam .
OC	I asked him whether he had done all the work himself or whether he had had any assistance .
OC	I asked if I did n't come to school yesterday .
OC	I ca n't say whether or not thet can come on time .
OC	I do n't think hens can fly .
OC	I do n't think he likes the English teacher .
OC	I feel it a pity that I have n't been to the get-together .
OC	I found it impossible that he could finish it in such a short time .
OC	I have made it a rule that I keep diaries .
OC	I heard it said that he had gone abroad .
OC	I think it necessary that we take plenty of hot water every day .
OC	I think it very strange that he goes out walking almost every night .
OC	I thought it impossible that he could finish this job in just two hours .
OC	I want to know if he broke my e-dictionary yesterday .
OC	Nobody knew whether he could pass the exam .
OC	Our teacher said that TIME is the first month of the year .
OC	Our teacher told us that light travels much faster than sound .
OC	Please tell me when we 'll have the meeting .
OC	Scientists have proved that the earth turns around the sun .
OC	The book will show you what the best CEOs know .
OC	The teacher said that the moon goes around the earth yesterday .
OC	We all consider what you said to be unbelievable .
OC	We all expect that they will win , for members of their team are stronger .
OC	We all find it important that we make a quick decision about the matter .
OC	We are talking about whether we admit students into our club .
OC	We decided whether to walk there .
OC	We suppose you have finished the project .
OC	We take it that you will agree with us .
OC	We think it wrong that he told a lie to everyone .
OC	He told that he would go to the college the next year .
OC	I do n't know if there will be a bus any more .
OC	I do n't know whom you should depend on .
OC	He told us that they would help us though the whole work .
OC	He told me that he would go to the college the next year .
PC	At that time , it seemed as if I could n't think of the right word .
PC	PLACE is not what it used to be .
PC	He is no longer what he was .
PC	His first question was whether Mr. Smith had arrived yet .
PC	His sole requirement was that the system work .
PC	His suggestion is that we should stay calm .
PC	It is not as though we were poor .
PC	It is n't as this is what I want , if you were going away for ever .
PC	It sounds as if someone is knocking at the door .
PC	It 's just because he does n't know her .
PC	My hope is that he will keep it a secret for ever .
PC	My idea is that we should start making preparations right now .
PC	My problem is which computer to choose .
PC	My question is who will take over president of the Foundation .
PC	My suggestion is that we should start early tomorrow .
PC	My suggestion is that we should tell him .
PC	Next TIME is when we shall meet .
PC	She has remained where I stood yesterday for an hour .
PC	That is because he had to help his little sister with her homework .
PC	That was when I was fifteen .
PC	That 's what I want to stress .
PC	That 's what we are here for .
PC	That 's where you are wrong .
PC	That 's why I object to the plan .
PC	That 's why he did n't come .
PC	The agument is whether it rains tomorrow .
PC	The point is whether we should lend him the money .
PC	The problem is how we can find him .
PC	The problem is how we can get the things we need .
PC	The problem is who can do the work .
PC	The problem is who we can get to replace her .
PC	The question is whether the enemy is marching towards us .
PC	The question is who we should trust .
PC	The trouble is that I have lost his address .
PC	This is what I want .
PC	You are not who I thought you were .
PC	The question remains whether they will be able to help us .
PADVC	Better takes more clothes in case the weather is cold .
PADVC	Everyone lend a hand , so that the sowing was done in time .
PADVC	He was worried for fear the child might hurt himself .
PADVC	He works hard in order that his family may be happy .
PADVC	He wrote the name down for fear that he should forget it .
PADVC	I hid the book lest he should see it .
PADVC	I am telling you that lest you should make a mistake .
PADVC	I got up early so that I could catch the first bus .
PADVC	Most students go to college so that they can be engineers , teachers or chemists .
PADVC	Say it louder that everyone can hear you .
PADVC	She has bought the book in order that she can follow the TV lessons .
PADVC	She looked down so that she should not see his eyes .
PADVC	The nurses whispered lest they should wake the sleeping child .
PADVC	The teacher raised his voice on purpose that the students in the back could hear more clearly .
PADVC	We have learned the native language so that we can speak to the people there .
PADVC	You must speak louder so that you can be heard by all .
RADVC	As all the seats were full , he stood up .
RADVC	As it was raining , I stayed at home .
RADVC	He could not have seen me , for I was not there .
RADVC	He distrusted me because I was new .
RADVC	I ca n't get to sleep because of the noise outside .
RADVC	I did n't go because I was afraid .
RADVC	I do it because I like it .
RADVC	I study hard because I want to be a college student in the future .
RADVC	Now that you are here , you 'd better stay .
RADVC	Now that you are well again , you can travel .
RADVC	Seeing that it 's raining , we 'd betterstay indoors .
RADVC	Since we 've no money , we ca n't buy it .
RADVC	Since you 're not interested , I wo n't tell you about it .
RADVC	The country is not strong because it is large .
RADVC	The sweater shrank because it was washed badly .
RADVC	The woolly shrank because it was washed badly .
RADVC	We went by bus because it was cheaper .
RADVC	You can trust those products because the quality never varies .
RADVC	You should n't get angry just because some people speak ill of you .
RSLADVC	He worried so that he could n't sleep .
RSLADVC	He speaks so fast that no one can catch him .
RSLADVC	There is so rapid an increase in population that a food shortage is caused .
RSLADVC	Our country has so much coal that she can export large quantities .
RSLADVC	The shop sells so expensive goods that I want to buy nothing in it .
RSLADVC	He 's such a good person that we must n't blame him .
RSLADVC	They are such fine teachers that we all hold them in great respect .
SS	I arrived home .
SS	They work hard .
SS	He likes English very much .
SS	He is generous .
SS	You looks good .
SS	I will tell my friends to protect the trees .
SS	He gave me some seeds .
SS	Mr.Smith teaches us Math .
SS	Nobody went .
SS	We never beat children .
SS	My sister will fix everything .
SS	Mr.Turner is an artist .
SS	She became a lawyer .
SS	I found the book easy .
SS	I 'll write you a long letter .
SC	How this happened is not clear to anyone .
SC	That he will come is certain .
SC	That he will help others is a fact .
SC	That he will not come to the meeting this evening is true .
SC	That price will go up is certain .
SC	What I want to know is this .
SC	What we need is money .
SC	Whatever he did is right .
SC	Whatever she did was right .
SC	When he will be back depends on the weather .
SC	When he will come is a puzzle .
SC	When he will come is not known .
SC	When we 'll start tomorrow will be told soon .
SC	Where the test will be given is not yet decided .
SC	Whether the meeting will be put off has not been decided yet .
SC	Whether they would support us was a problem .
SC	Which side will win is not clear .
SC	Who killed the scientist remains a question .
SC	Whoever breaks the law will be punished .
SC	Whoever wants to enter into this school must take the exam .
SC	What he needs are some books .
SC	It is certain that she will do well in her exam .
SC	It 's a pity that we ca n't go .
SC	It is said that Mr. Green has arrived in PLACE .
SC	It happened that I was out that day .
SC	It does n't matter whether she will come or not .
SC	It 's a pity that he did n't come .
SC	It was a problem whether they would support us .
SC	It remains to be seen whether it will do us harm or good .
SC	That you did n't go to the talk was a pity .
SC	That you are so indifferent bothers me .
SC	That she survived the accident is a miracle .
SC	What I want to know is this .
SC	Where we should leave it is a problem .
SC	When they will come has n't been made pubic .
SC	When the plane is to take off has not been announced .
SC	Which of them escaped from the prison is still a mystery .
SC	It is a mystery to me how it all happened .
SC	It is common knowledge that the whale is not a fish .
SC	It is no surprise that Bob should have won the game .
SC	It is essential that he should be here by the TIME .
SC	It shocked me that Peter did not tell anybody where he was .
SC	It does not interest me whether you go or not .
TADVC	After we had finished the work , we went home .
TADVC	By the time the war ended , millions of children became orphans .
TADVC	By the time you came back , I had finished this book .
TADVC	Each time he came to PLACE , he would call on me .
TADVC	He had hardly fallen asleep when he felt a soft touch on his shoulder .
TADVC	He had no sooner finished his speech than the students started cheering .
TADVC	He was on the point of leaving when someone knocked at the door .
TADVC	He was still smiling when the door opened and his wife came in .
TADVC	I did n't go to bed until my father came back .
TADVC	I have been in PLACE since you left .
TADVC	I have heard a lot of good things about you since I came back from abroad .
TADVC	I was thinking of this when I heard my name called .
TADVC	It began to rain just as I arrived home .
TADVC	It 's much easier to make friends when you have similar interests .
TADVC	Mary made coffee while her guests were finishing their meal .
TADVC	Nancy enjoyed herself so much when she visited her friends in PLACE TIME .
TADVC	One TIME , we were packing to leave for a weekend away when my daughter heard cries for help .
TADVC	She had just finished her homework when her mother asked her to practice playing the piano yesterday .
TADVC	The audience applauded John when he ended his speech .
TADVC	The moment I heard the news , I hastened to the spot .
TADVC	The next time she saw him , he was cooking rice .
TADVC	The villagers were enjoying their peaceful life when a war broke out .
TADVC	They had no sooner concluded the war than they were faced with pestilence .
TADVC	This new policy came in the very times when they really needed it .
TADVC	We were about to leave when he came in .
TADVC	We were about to start when it began to rain .
TADVC	We were having our picnic when it rained .
TADVC	When I die , my children can take care of themselves .
TADVC	When I lived in the countryside , I used to carry some water for him .
TADVC	When she turned off the light , she went to bed .
TADVC	Whenever I have to give a speech , I get extremely nervous before I start .
TADVC	You ca n't borrow books from the school library before you get your student card .
TADVC	You grow younger every time I see you .
TADVC	You must learn to consult your feelings and your reason when you reach any decision .
TADVC	You will be unhappy when you are old and poor .
TADVC	I was just reading a book when she came into my room .
TADVC	While Jim was mending his bike , Lin Tao came to see him .
TADVC	I will call you when I get home .
TADVC	I was about to leave the room when the phone rang .
TADVC	The days get longer when TIME comes .
TADVC	Close the door before you leave the room .
TADVC	I went to school after I finished my breakfast .
TADVC	I 'll call you as soon as I get home .
TADVC	I 'll wait here till the rain stops .
TADVC	I 'll wait here still the rain stops .
TADVC	You ca n't go home until you finish your work .
TADVC	You ca n't go home till you finish your work .
TADVC	As the weather went on the weather got worse .
WADVC	And where there is shale there is likely to be oil .
WADVC	Everywhere they went , they were warmly received .
WADVC	Fill in the blanks with articles where it is necessary .
WADVC	Go back where you came from .
WADVC	He advised me to live where the air is fresher .
WADVC	He is welcome wherever he goes .
WADVC	He took me where we might dine and talk .
WADVC	In peace , too , the Red Cross is expected to send help wherever there is human suffering .
WADVC	Keep it where you can see it .
WADVC	Sit wherever you like .
WADVC	They arrived where they had fallen in love ten years ago .
WADVC	They will go where they are happy .
WADVC	We ca n't cooperate where there is no common benefit .
WADVC	We must camp where we can get water .
WADVC	We went home , where we had dinner .
WADVC	Where I live there are plenty of trees .
WADVC	Where the sea is , you will find seamen .
WADVC	Where there is a will , there is a way .
WADVC	Where there is life , there is hope .
WADVC	Where there is no rain , farming is difficult or impossible .
WADVC	Wherever I am I will be thinking of you .
WADVC	With a car , a person can go where he pleases and when he pleases .
WADVC	You may go anywhere you like .
WADVC	You should have put the book where you found it .
WADVC	He lives where there are a lot sheep .
WADVC	I should put the book where I can see it .
WADVC	Make a mark where you have any question .
WADVC	I found my wallet where I fell down yesterday .
WADVC	Where there is a river , there is a city .
WADVC	Wherever you go , I will follow you .
